Name: Richard Angelo E. Jaro 
Course and Section: BSCpE 4B
Subject: CpE 421-Troubleshooting of Computer Systems

 
Finals: 1000-word essay about Engr. Max Angelo Perin’s Teaching Experience in the perspective of the student

	DISCLAIMER: DO NOT READ THIS. THIS IS BASED ON A PERSONAL POINT OF VIEW. I HOPE YOU WILL NOT FAIL ME BECAUSE OF THIS PAPER. I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS CONSTRUCTIVE CRITICISM. ANY GRAMMATICAL ERRORS AND THE LIKES ARE DEEMED NECESSARY AS WE ARE HUMANS, ALREADY MADE TO COMMIT MISTAKES. 
Three months for an instructor is not enough time for someone to evaluate. It is more of like a first impression of how you time since you said it is your first time. However, first impressions last. So for the time being, here is my experience as your student in your subject in Troubleshooting of Computer Systems. 
	When it was announced that Sir Ralph will not be coming back as our instructor, I felt devastated as he is one of my favorite instructors. His reasons are quite reasonable though. We waited for a couple of weeks for someone to replace him. Later, rumors that “ang uyab ni ate Jean ang mupuli ni Sir Galao” spread like wildfire. We tried to recall your name. Questions like “Kinsa gani to?” and “Unsa gani’y pangalan adto?” were the usual queries of the environment. Finally, you arrived.
	Your small stature made the class see you in a non-intimidating manner yet the respect was still there. The class was noisy as hell but maybe the class was just adjusting then when you first came in. At first you seem like the other instructors: a little mature, a little nerdy and have the passion to teach. However, something made me applaud internally. Something different that cannot be seen in other instructors. It was your passion of our language and our writing system. Sure, it is not really related to the subject and is really irrelevant on many levels, but the rarity of people like you makes me want to shift to Arts and Languages major (kidding aside). You are a linguist and a proud Filipino at heart. The proof was on the test papers itself. You are the first instructor I have ever known to use the Philippines original writing language or script on a test paper in college. With that, I became more amazed.
	You are preserving our language and our writing system like nobody else. Your efforts of inserting the writing system on our questionnaires and even the answers are astounding and I can never be more proud than a Filipino than ever before. 
	HOWEVER, I only gained little from the subject. Well, if you have taught us from the start of the semester, it would have been more productive compared today. Actually, I am very saddened that this subject was seen as minors by the majority of my classmates. One of my classmates even said in our vernacular language: “We are Computer Engineers (in the future) but yet we are mainly focusing on software not on hardware. By definition, it is supposed to be the other way around. And by that, I am saddened.” I agree on what my classmate said. And I cannot picture out a better instructor than you. 
	There are some key areas where I believe you can improve including the modulation of your voice, your stature, you interaction with the students, and the method of teaching you are using. However, these in my opinion are merely personal and may or may not affect others.
	But as a requirement in this paper, whereas I should write how I should evaluate you as an instructor, I must write it down. Let us start with your voice. Your voice is high and pitchy and because of that, your voice cannot be heard at the back when the people outside the classroom a.k.a. the outside world is very noisy and tends to become less audible. Your small stature is considerable but you sit too much. Every time I enter the classroom, I can always see you sitting on the chair behind or beside your desk. But if you want your students to interact and listen to you clearly, you should let your body (not naked) be seen and they will focus on you. In Psychology, there is a theory about the attention span of human beings. If there is a person in front of an audience, they will tend to focus more on the person even if the topic is unexciting which brings us to the next area: how you interact with your students. Because you have a small stature and a small and pitchy voice, you tend to be unnoticed even if you’re around or inside the classroom already. To remedy this, find ways to get the attention of your students like letting them watch videos start a small conversation or even #REALTALK them. With the aforementioned ideas, you will surely get their attention. However, these are merely suggestions and should not be taken seriously and to the heart. Lastly, the method of teaching you are using. You are not exactly spoon-feeding us, but you are also not being interactive enough for us to learn. We as molders of the future, should break the stigma that college is only for compliance and the passion of learning is buried six feet deep below the ground and engage the youth to follow education. As I was sitting in one of the teacher education subjects called Professional Education, there is one teaching method called “Discovery learning” and I think it is the best way to teach a student to learn new things and to instill on their minds the beauty of education and the fruits that education will bear in the future. 
	“Instructors are different from teachers.” I beg to disagree. If your purpose of being an instructor is just to have your salary, you might as well quit your job and be a somewhere else where your philosophy matches your job description. Because I believe that if you are working in an academic institution and you deprive someone the knowledge they are entitled to, you are subject under the hands of law as you are already going against the law of Human Rights where it stated: “EVERY HUMAN HAS THE RIGHT TO QUALITY EDUCATION.” Furthermore, because you are giving us everything you need to teach as much as you can, you are TEACHER, an INSTRUCTOR or whatever you may call yourself worthy of credit. But for me, I am proud I was your student that had a LINGUIST, an ACTIVIST, and a PATRIOT for a teacher. 
